---
layout: post
title:  "cpm Introduction"
date:   2017-12-23 01:11:54 +0100
categories: cpm
---

This is the begining of cpm!

### What is this?

`cpm` is short for **C[++] Package Manager**. Bellow I will describe why it is
usefull and what this is all about.

### Why should I care?

Right now it is kinda hard to ensure reproducible builds across various machines. There
are many issues that prevent this:

  1. Dependencies
  2. Dependencies
  3. Platform-specific Issues

You might ask yourself why dependencies is listed twice? It's because there are
actually two dependencie issues here:

  1. Compilation
  2. Runtime

The first seems easy to solve with the tools we have today, like `apt`. The issue
is that there are many different package managers across many different operating
systems and distros. Each will serve a different or even modified version of a
curtain library.

The second issue is even worse. While languages like go allow you to bundle
everything in a singe executable, C/C++ does not do this automaticaly. I know,
you will argue, that C/C++ allow static linking which solves this issue but you
still need to get the libraries somewhere.

### How will this solve any problems?

To solve any problem, we need to view cpm in two perspectives:

#### 1. Build System

The current solutions (GNU Autotools or CMake) are great, don't get me wrong here.
But I think a modern build system should follow a few rules which are missing in
the existing solutions (or are not that easy to do). So for cpm, there are the
following general rules:

  1. **Clean Source Tree**: The source of your project should remain as clean as
  possible to make it easier to work with and to distribute it. All generated files
  should be stored in `build/`. For Example object files could be placed in `build/obj/`
  while binaries could be stored in `build/bin/` and so on.

  2. **Multi Project Repositories**: Unlike languages like `PHP` it is common in C/C++
  that a repository contains multiple 'projects'. This could mean a library and
  a cli utility to access the library.

  3. **Incremental Builds**: Object files should only be compiled if a dependency
  changes. This ensures higher build speeds for large projects. (You should note,
  that this feature is basically available in every build system out there)

  4. **Local Dependencies**: If your repository contains a binary project and a
  library project it should be easy to use the library in the binary project.

  5. **System Checks**: You should be able to define some stuff that you need from
  the system and/or the compiler (e.g. `C++11`).

  6. **Basic Packaging Support**: Distributing your package via package managers
  like `apt` or `rpm` or `pacman` requires the same work for every project. It would
  be nice if your build system would be able to do this for you!

#### 2. Dependency Manager

The idea behind the package manager aspect of cpm is similar to the one from npm.
There should be many small packages for curtain tasks so that you can include what
you need. To fulfill the goals and solve the issues stated above it needs to follow
these core rules:

  1. **Reproducible**: This means, that as soon as dependencies are resolved they
  will be written to a lock file which can be committed as well.
  If you install dependencies with `cpm` it should only perform the actions defined
  in the lock file. This ensures that you will get the exact same packages everywhere!

  2. **Easy Integration**: cpm should handle all packages automatically, this includes
  building them but does also mean that it will provide them in the same way as local
  packages.

  3. **Clean Source Tree**: Again it is important, that cpm will only ever download
  stuff into the `vendor/` directory to ensure a clean source tree.

  4. **Allow CLI Apps**: It could be handy to distribute an binary project with your
  library (e.g. a cli client for you database). cpm should copy flagged projects
  to a special `vendor/bin` path.

### What about Licenses/Costs?

cpm is open source and released under the MIT License which allows you to use
cpm in almost every situation. If you have any issues with this License, please
open an Issue, because it is our number one priority that cpm can be used everywhere!


### Can I help?

Sure! And if you have some spare time and interest, please do so! Just take a look
at out GitHub page!


### Got any Questions?

Ask! Just open an Issue at GitHub or send me an E-Mail.
